---
title: Bombardment (Unit Ability)
---

 
## Rules Reference

  
A unit with the Bombardment ability may be able to destroy another player’s ground forces during an invasion. During the <b>Bombardment</b> step, players perform the following steps:

 
 1. <b>Step 1</b> – The active player chooses which planet each of their units that has a Bombardment ability will bombard. Then, that player rolls dice for each of those units; this is called a bombardment roll. A hit is produced for each die roll that is equal to or greater than the unit’s Bombardment value.
 
     1. A unit’s Bombardment ability is presented along with a unit’s attributes on faction sheets and unit upgrade technology cards.
     2. The Bombardment ability is displayed as “Bombardment X (×Y)”. The X is the minimum value needed for a die to produce a hit, and Y is the number of dice rolled. Not all Bombardment abilities have a (Y) value; a bombardment roll for such a unit consists of one die.
     3. Game effects that reroll, modify, or otherwise affect combat rolls do not affect bombardment rolls.
     4. Multiple planets in a system may be bombarded, but a player must declare which planet a unit is bombarding before making a bombardment roll.
     5. The L1Z1X’s Harrow ability does not affect the L1Z1X player’s own ground forces.
     6. Planets that contain a unit with the Planetary Shield ability cannot be bombarded.
 
 2. <b>Step 2</b> – The player who controls the planet that is being bombarded chooses and destroys one of their ground forces on that planet for each hit result the bombardment roll produced.
 
    1. If a player has to assign more hits than that player has ground forces, the excess hits have no effect.

 
 
## Notes

 
 1. The <b>Bombardment</b> step happens outside of combat. No combat effects may affect a bombardment roll.
 
    1. A player cannot score a secret objective that requires them to win a combat or similar by destroying units during the <b>Bombardment</b> step.

 2. Mechs may use their Sustain Damage ability to cancel a hit produced by a bombardment roll.
 3. Only the active player may bombard. Usually, but not always, only the active player will have ships in the system during an invasion.
 4. For notes about Harrow, see the <a href="/factions/f_lizix">L1Z1X faction notes page</a>.
 5. The “0” side of the d10 represents a result of 10.
 6. A single planet must be chosen for each unit with the Bombardment ability; any hits generated by that unit will be assigned to units on that planet. For example, when a war sun rolls for its Bombardment ability, all three dice must be rolled to produce hits against units on a single planet; they can not be split between two or more planets.
 
    1. If an ability allows a unit to roll one or more additional dice, such as the <i>Plasma Scoring</i> technology, the additional dice must be rolled against units on the same planet.

 7. A player may choose not to use the Bombardment abilities of their units during their tactical actions. However, if they choose to use the Bombardment ability, they must use the Bombardment ability of each unit in the active system.
 
    1. Say a player had three dreadnoughts in the active system, and owned the <i>Plasma Scoring</i> technology. They would be able to roll their choice of zero, three, or four dice when resolving their Bombardment ability.

 
 
## Related Topics

 
 - <a href="/rules/r_abilities">Abilities</a>
 - <a href="/rules/r_destroyed">Destroyed</a>
 - <a href="/rules/r_ground_forces">Ground Forces</a>
 - <a href="/rules/r_invasion">Invasion</a>
 - <a href="/rules/r_planetary_shield">Planetary Shield</a>
 
 